# smartmet-rpm-build-all

Build and test all RPM packages in correct dependency order and form yum repository

## Purpose of this module

This module is mainly intended for automatic CI builds in CirleCI(or future another system).
When used in such a context, it should build and test all public smartmet-modules. The resulting set
is an YUM repository and set of RPMs that is tested and working.

The CI should run this approximately daily.

## Triggering the build daily

This is accomplished by a separate module smartmet-rpmbuild-all-trigger. That module should regenerate the
config for this module and push changes to Github triggering build for this module.
If there are no changes, timestamp is nonetheless updated to force a rebuild.

## CI configuration autobuild

CI configuration in .circleci/config.yml is automatically regenerated from the template file in the same directory.
CircleCI is unable to regenerate the config file and restart. Thus it is either regenerated manually or by a separate
module.

Template and resulting CircleCI config use features of CirleCI 2.1 to simplify individual jobs.
It is recommended that you make changes to specified execution environment and commands instead of the job templates
unless absolutely required.

The configuration rebuild process:
* reads template
* downloads spec files of predefined set of modules
* reads their contents and builds build and test dependency trees downloading more spec files
* recursively build the whole dependency trees (for both test and build)
* constructs build and test jobs for all modules found via this process
* constructs dependency definitions under workflow

## Module building and testing

Modules are built using general rules. Their individual CircleCI configs are not used for this process (it would
be too difficult to parse CircleCI configs). Instead a generic ci-build command is used and whatever is defined
in CirleCI build and test commands in CircleCI config for this module. CI-build comes from the underlying Docker
image. See module

In general the build process:
* downloads dependencies
* runs make rpm
* collects resulting RPMs for passing to other steps

The test process:
* constructs an RPM repository out of already tested RPMs in this workflow
* installs (with dependencies) the RPMs under testing
* installs anything mentioned in spec file on #TestRequires lines
* runs make test
* moved the now tested RPMs for passing in the general end-result repository

No module specific rules are possible. In theory you could detect the module name in the build/test command, and
do something module specific. However, the better way is to actually implement these inside the modules
themselves in make rpm and make test rules instead and/or specific dependant modules.

## Collecting and archiving end results

As a final step, all tested RPMs are collected, and a repository made out of those.
This now has a set of tested RPMs.

## Modifying the template and/or config rebuilder

Modify the template to improve the build process such as using CirleCI caching(might speed up builds significantly).
Modify the config rebuilder command for changes which need to be repeated on all modules and/or modifications to the
dependency building process.

## Branches

Currently this module is designed to work with master only and will build the master branch of all smartmet-modules.
Branching and using the same branch name for other modules is possible but has not been tested and likely has errors.
For the time being, daily automatic builds for anything besides master would not be working anyway as there is no
other branch which would have all needed modules.

## Internals

### Passing of untested RPMs from build jon to test job

This uses CircleCI workspaces. CircleCI workspaces are per directory so we have to use separate directories for different modules. Built RPMs are saved moved to /dist-modulename where modulename is smartmet-XXX. This step should
be the last step on build phase and attaching to it the first on test phase.

### Passing of tested RPMs from test jobs for use in forthcoming steps

This uses CircleCI workspaces. Workspaces are layered so we can add more RPMs as the last step on each test job.
This is in directory /repo .

However, since it is needed as a yum repository during testing, createrepo has to be run before testing.
In addition, files generated by createrepo should be reomved at the end before the workspace is saved.
CircleCI is unable to handle files with the same name coming from multiple jobs.
The final repo files are created after all steps are really done.

## Other modules

* docker-smartmet-cibase
* smartmet-rpm-build-all-trigger
* smartmet-build-utils (useful if you need local builds)
* other smartmet modules